cryptosporidia
parasite that can cause gastrointestinal infection and diarrhea. (See also gastroenteritis.)

language
system for communicating ideas and feelings using sounds, gestures, signs, or marks.

aphasia
total or partial loss of ability to use or understand language; usually caused by stroke, brain disease, or injury.

physiatrist
the physician who specializes in physical medicine and rehabilitation.

decibel
unit that measures the intensity or loudness of sound.

gastroenterologist
physician who specializes in digestive diseases.

palming
an imaging technique involving the visualization of color.

dysphagia
difficulty in swallowing.

joint
where the ends of two or more bones meet.

manometry
tests that measure muscle pressure and movements in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.

craniotomy
surgical opening of the skull to gain access to the intracranial structures.

pepsin
enzyme made in the stomach that breaks down proteins.

ischemia
decreased flow of oxygenated blood to an organ due to obstruction in an artery.

pylorus
opening from the stomach into the top of the small intestine (duodenum).

peptic
related to the stomach and the duodenum, where pepsin is present.

chlorhydria
too much hydrochloric acid in the stomach.

prosthodontist
a dental specialist who has undergone additional training and certification in the restoration and replacement of broken teeth with crowns, bridges, or removable prosthetics (dentures).

cerebrum
consists of two parts (lobes), left and right, which form the largest and most developed part of the brain; initiation and coordination of all voluntary movement take place within the cerebrum. The basal ganglia are located immediately below the cerebrum.

fibroadenoma
noncancerous, firm, rubbery lump in the breast that is painless and moves around easily when touched.

crepitus
grinding noise or sensation within a joint.

craniectomy
excision of a part of the skull.

glycogen
converted glucose for storage. Glycogen plays a role in controlling blood sugar levels.

contusion
a bruise caused by a blow to the muscle, tendon, or ligament; caused when blood pools around the point of injury and discolors the skin.

abdominoscopy
a type of surgery that uses a laparoscope, which is inserted into one or more small incisions, to examine the abdominal cavity. (See also endoscopy, laparoscopy, or minimally invasive surgery.)

genes
basic, functional units of heredity, each occupying a specific place on a chromosome.

dilate
relax; expand.

cholecystokinin
hormone released in the small intestine; causes muscles in the gallbladder and the colon to tighten and relax.

lipid
a fatty substance in the blood.

pathology
the study of diseases.

antacids
medicines that balance acids and gas in the stomach.

salpingo-oophorectomy
surgery to remove the fallopian tubes and ovaries.

pacemaker
an electronic device that is surgically implanted into the patient's heart and chest to regulate heartbeat.

miosis
constriction of the pupil.

